rwd-10-marking-options.md, before:

# RWD 10 - Marking descriptors for your work

All descriptions go from worst (0%) to best (85–100%).

## Metadata

Metadata is marked by reading the metadata in the HTML – the meta description tag and the title tag.

* **0-19** - Little or no attempt to create relevant metadata for titles or meta descriptions. You haven't edited the code supplied to add these.
* **20–34** - Limited or flawed attempt to develop relevant metadata for titles or meta descriptions. You may have started editing the code, but you haven't completed it.
* **35–39** - Partial attempt to fulfil the required metadata for titles and meta descriptions. You have edited the code, but the metadata is not relevant.
* **40–49** - Satisfactory attempt to fulfil the required metadata for titles and meta descriptions. You have edited the code, but the metadata is not completely relevant.
* **50–59** - Coherent and careful delivery of the required metadata. You have added relevant metadata but more detail is expected to add context.
* **60–69** - Thorough and precise delivery of the required metadata. There may be minor errors. You have edited, relevant metadata that is useful for SEO.
* **70–85** - Meticulous work that fulfils the required metadata and shows sophistication. You have edited, relevant metadata that is useful for SEO and reads well.
* **86–100** - Professional standard work that fulfils the required metadata and shows creativity. You have edited, relevant metadata that is useful for SEO, reads well and has personality.

## Working with html

Marked by [validating the HTML](https://validator.w3.org/) and reading the code.

* **0-19** - Little or no attempt to use the supplied template.
* **20–34** - Limited or flawed attempt to implement the supplied template. There are parts of HTML you still find difficult.
* **35–39** - Partial attempt to implement the supplied template. You have made basic mistakes in your code.
* **40–49** - Satisfactory attempt to implement the supplied template and write code that reflects best practices. There are likely to be multiple errors. The code may not validate or there are parts missing.
* **50–59** - Coherent and careful delivery of code that reflects best practices. There may be some errors. The code has been written carefully.
* **60–69** - Thorough and precise delivery of code that reflects best practices. There may be minor errors. The code has been written carefully and extra tags may have been added.
* **70–85** - Meticulous coding work that fulfils the required standards and shows sophistication. You have clearly practised and are starting to gain a very good understanding of semantic HTML.
* **86–100** - Professional work that meets the required standards and shows creativity. Your code is written to a high standard.

## Working with CSS

Marked by [validating](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) and reading your CSS file.

* **0-19** - Little or no attempt to implement the stylesheet provided.
* **20–34** - Limited or flawed attempt to implement the stylesheet for this site. There are big gaps in your knowledge of CSS and its syntax.
* **35–39** - Partial attempt to implement the stylesheet provided for this site. There are some gaps in your knowledge of CSS and its syntax.
* **40–49** - Satisfactory attempt to implement the required styles for this site. There are likely to be multiple errors.
* **50–59** - Coherent and careful delivery of the relevant styles for this site. There may be some errors.
* **60–69** - Thorough and precise delivery of a relevant stylesheet for this site. There may be minor errors. You have written a valid, organised stylesheet.
* **70–85** - Meticulous work creating a stylesheet that shows sophistication. You have written a valid, organised stylesheet and may have added interesting code.
* **86–100** - Professional standard work that has produced a stylesheet that shows creativity and best practices. You have written a professional standard stylesheet with cutting-edge code.

## Working with javascript

Marked by viewing code and visually checking submission.

* **0-19** - No attempt to add any JavaScript.
* **20–34** - Some code is in place but there are major syntax errors.
* **35–39** - Some code is in place but does not work.
* **40–49** - Some code is in place but only partly works.
* **50–59** - One code example is in place and works
* **60–69** - Both code examples are in place but there are errors
* **70–85** - All code is in place and works correctly.
* **86–100** - All code is in place and works correctly. You have added further code or modified it successfully to fit your website.

## Image preparation and usage

Marked by reviewing the implementation of relevant, quality media for the hero and gallery. This includes checking for optimization by checking pixel dimensions and file sizes of images. 

* **0-19** - No attempt to add images to your page.
* **20–34** - Some code is in place but images fail to load. Images are not optimised for the web.
* **35–39** - Code is in place, images load but are not optimised for the web.
* **40–49** - Code is in place, images load but optimisation is inconsistent and images do not add to your content.
* **50–59** - Code is in place, images load but optimisation is inconsistent. Images add to your content.
* **60–69** - Code is in place and some images are fully optimised for the web. Images have been chosen carefully and work well with your content.
* **70–85** - Code is in place and all images are fully optimised for the web. Images have been chosen carefully and work well with your content.
* **86–100** - Code is in place and all images are fully optimised for the web. You have added further code or modified your images to fit your website.

## Design, writing and attention to detail

Marked by reading content. We will pay attention to the overall word count. Also the quality of writing and overall design of the page including layout, use of space, typography and choice of colours.

* **0-19** - Little or no attempt to create a relevant visual design for this site. No attempt to add content.
* **20–34** - Limited or flawed attempt to create a relevant visual design for this site. Little attempt to add content - may still contain placeholder text like lorem ipsum. Basic original content provided, may not reach required word counts. May be typos or grammar errors.
* **35–39** - Partial attempt to fulfil the required relevant visual design for this site. Good original content provided. May be some typos or grammar errors.
* **40–49** - Satisfactory attempt to fulfil the required relevant visual design for this site. Your colour scheme, typography and use of space isn't completely convincing. Very good original content provided. May be minor errors.
* **50–59** - Coherent and careful delivery of the required relevant visual design for this site. Mostly your colour scheme, typography and use of space is convincing, but there may be places where the overall effect is spoiled. Engaging and relevant original content. Fit for purpose.
* **60–69** - Thorough and precise delivery of the required relevant visual design for this site. Overall this is a very good design.
* **70–85** - Meticulous work that fulfils the required design elements and shows sophistication. This is an excellent design that feels considered and is well linked to your content. Engaging and insightful original content, fully relevant to the theme of your site.
* **86–100** - Professional standard work that fulfils the required design elements and shows creativity. This is an excellent design that looks and feels professional. Engaging and insightful original content, fully relevant to the theme of your site."
  ];

## Responsive web design implementation

Marked by viewing site on mobile devices and inspecting source code.

* **0-19** - Little or no attempt to implement a responsive design.
* **20–34** - Limited or flawed attempt to implement a responsive design.
* **35–39** - Partial attempt to fulfil the required responsive design process. Did you work mobile first?
* **40–49** - Satisfactory attempt to fulfil the required responsive design process. There are likely to be multiple errors. Did you work mobile first? Check your work in a mobile device.
* **50–59** - Coherent and careful delivery of a responsive design. There may be some errors. Your site is mostly responsive but there may be CSS missing in some areas.
* **60–69** - Thorough and precise delivery of a responsive design. There may be minor errors. Your site is completely responsive.
* **70–85** - Meticulous work that creates a responsive design and shows sophistication. Your site is responsive and works well at all screen sizes.
* **86–100** - Professional standard work that creates a responsive design and shows creativity. Your site is responsive and has added thought to create an industry-standard site.

## Accessibility and usability of site

Marked by reading alt text, checking colour contrast and legibility. Usability is marked by viewing the page and interacting with it on a variety of devices.

* **0-19** - Little or no attempt to create a usable and accessible website, or errors that make the site almost totally inaccessible.
* **20–34** - Limited or flawed attempt to create an accessible and usable website with unacceptable errors: you may for example have very poor colour contrast, poor or missing alt text.
* **35–39** - Partial attempt to create a usable and accessible website with unacceptable accessibility or usability issues: you may have very poor colour contrast, poor or missing alt text.
* **40–49** - Satisfactory attempt to create a usable and accessible website: you may still have poor colour contrast, poor or missing alt text.
* **50–59** - The usability and accessibility of your site overall is of a good standard: you may have some poor colour contrast, poor or missing alt text.
* **60–69** - You have created a website that works well at desktop and mobile screen sizes with good accessibility and usability: you have good colour contrast and your alt text is in place.
* **70–85** - Your site has an excellent level of usability and accessibility, and works well for touchscreen or standard computer displays: you have good colour contrast and your alt text is in place.
* **86–100** - Meticulous work that fulfils the accessibility and usability requirements of this project. Your site works well for touchscreen or standard computer displays: you have excellent colour contrast, your alt text is fit for purpose. You have gone beyond what is required and added useful extra code or design elements to create a professional website.

## Quality of site preparation

This includes file/folder naming and folder structure. Marked by viewing submission files.

* **0-19** - There is no structure to your site and it would be very difficult to work on in this state.
* **20–34** - Files and folders are totally disorganised and some may be missing.
* **35–39** - Files and folders are very disorganised and file names may be confusing.
* **40–49** - Files and folders are disorganised and file names are confusing.
* **50–59** - Files and folders are mostly organised. File names are sometimes confusing.
* **60–69** - Files and folders are mostly organised. File names are mostly named systematically.
* **70–85** - Files and folders are organised and file names are systematic.
* **86–100** - Files and folders are organised and named to a professional standard."

## Your overall mark

Your overall mark is worked out on the basis of the average of the individual marks for your site: so it’s better to spend time on each aspect of your site rather than concentrating on just one.

Commit message:

update intro to marking criteria

rwd-10-marking-options.md, after:

# RWD 10 - Marking descriptors for your work

All descriptions go from worst (0%) to best (85–100%). Trying to mark your own work is a good way of checking if you’ve met all the criteria of any assessment.

The [Intro to Web assessment 2 marksheet is available on moodle](https://moodle.mmu.ac.uk/pluginfile.php/5085486/mod_resource/content/0/iwd-acw2-marksheet.pdf) (link will only work if you’re logged in to moodle)

## Metadata

Metadata is marked by reading the metadata in the HTML – the meta description tag and the title tag.

* **0-19** - Little or no attempt to create relevant metadata for titles or meta descriptions. You haven't edited the code supplied to add these.
* **20–34** - Limited or flawed attempt to develop relevant metadata for titles or meta descriptions. You may have started editing the code, but you haven't completed it.
* **35–39** - Partial attempt to fulfil the required metadata for titles and meta descriptions. You have edited the code, but the metadata is not relevant.
* **40–49** - Satisfactory attempt to fulfil the required metadata for titles and meta descriptions. You have edited the code, but the metadata is not completely relevant.
* **50–59** - Coherent and careful delivery of the required metadata. You have added relevant metadata but more detail is expected to add context.
* **60–69** - Thorough and precise delivery of the required metadata. There may be minor errors. You have edited, relevant metadata that is useful for SEO.
* **70–85** - Meticulous work that fulfils the required metadata and shows sophistication. You have edited, relevant metadata that is useful for SEO and reads well.
* **86–100** - Professional standard work that fulfils the required metadata and shows creativity. You have edited, relevant metadata that is useful for SEO, reads well and has personality.

## Working with html

Marked by [validating the HTML](https://validator.w3.org/) and reading the code.

* **0-19** - Little or no attempt to use the supplied template.
* **20–34** - Limited or flawed attempt to implement the supplied template. There are parts of HTML you still find difficult.
* **35–39** - Partial attempt to implement the supplied template. You have made basic mistakes in your code.
* **40–49** - Satisfactory attempt to implement the supplied template and write code that reflects best practices. There are likely to be multiple errors. The code may not validate or there are parts missing.
* **50–59** - Coherent and careful delivery of code that reflects best practices. There may be some errors. The code has been written carefully.
* **60–69** - Thorough and precise delivery of code that reflects best practices. There may be minor errors. The code has been written carefully and extra tags may have been added.
* **70–85** - Meticulous coding work that fulfils the required standards and shows sophistication. You have clearly practised and are starting to gain a very good understanding of semantic HTML.
* **86–100** - Professional work that meets the required standards and shows creativity. Your code is written to a high standard.

## Working with CSS

Marked by [validating](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) and reading your CSS file.

* **0-19** - Little or no attempt to implement the stylesheet provided.
* **20–34** - Limited or flawed attempt to implement the stylesheet for this site. There are big gaps in your knowledge of CSS and its syntax.
* **35–39** - Partial attempt to implement the stylesheet provided for this site. There are some gaps in your knowledge of CSS and its syntax.
* **40–49** - Satisfactory attempt to implement the required styles for this site. There are likely to be multiple errors.
* **50–59** - Coherent and careful delivery of the relevant styles for this site. There may be some errors.
* **60–69** - Thorough and precise delivery of a relevant stylesheet for this site. There may be minor errors. You have written a valid, organised stylesheet.
* **70–85** - Meticulous work creating a stylesheet that shows sophistication. You have written a valid, organised stylesheet and may have added interesting code.
* **86–100** - Professional standard work that has produced a stylesheet that shows creativity and best practices. You have written a professional standard stylesheet with cutting-edge code.

## Working with javascript

Marked by viewing code and visually checking submission.

* **0-19** - No attempt to add any JavaScript.
* **20–34** - Some code is in place but there are major syntax errors.
* **35–39** - Some code is in place but does not work.
* **40–49** - Some code is in place but only partly works.
* **50–59** - One code example is in place and works
* **60–69** - Both code examples are in place but there are errors
* **70–85** - All code is in place and works correctly.
* **86–100** - All code is in place and works correctly. You have added further code or modified it successfully to fit your website.

## Image preparation and usage

Marked by reviewing the implementation of relevant, quality media for the hero and gallery. This includes checking for optimization by checking pixel dimensions and file sizes of images. 

* **0-19** - No attempt to add images to your page.
* **20–34** - Some code is in place but images fail to load. Images are not optimised for the web.
* **35–39** - Code is in place, images load but are not optimised for the web.
* **40–49** - Code is in place, images load but optimisation is inconsistent and images do not add to your content.
* **50–59** - Code is in place, images load but optimisation is inconsistent. Images add to your content.
* **60–69** - Code is in place and some images are fully optimised for the web. Images have been chosen carefully and work well with your content.
* **70–85** - Code is in place and all images are fully optimised for the web. Images have been chosen carefully and work well with your content.
* **86–100** - Code is in place and all images are fully optimised for the web. You have added further code or modified your images to fit your website.

## Design, writing and attention to detail

Marked by reading content. We will pay attention to the overall word count. Also the quality of writing and overall design of the page including layout, use of space, typography and choice of colours.

* **0-19** - Little or no attempt to create a relevant visual design for this site. No attempt to add content.
* **20–34** - Limited or flawed attempt to create a relevant visual design for this site. Little attempt to add content - may still contain placeholder text like lorem ipsum. Basic original content provided, may not reach required word counts. May be typos or grammar errors.
* **35–39** - Partial attempt to fulfil the required relevant visual design for this site. Good original content provided. May be some typos or grammar errors.
* **40–49** - Satisfactory attempt to fulfil the required relevant visual design for this site. Your colour scheme, typography and use of space isn't completely convincing. Very good original content provided. May be minor errors.
* **50–59** - Coherent and careful delivery of the required relevant visual design for this site. Mostly your colour scheme, typography and use of space is convincing, but there may be places where the overall effect is spoiled. Engaging and relevant original content. Fit for purpose.
* **60–69** - Thorough and precise delivery of the required relevant visual design for this site. Overall this is a very good design.
* **70–85** - Meticulous work that fulfils the required design elements and shows sophistication. This is an excellent design that feels considered and is well linked to your content. Engaging and insightful original content, fully relevant to the theme of your site.
* **86–100** - Professional standard work that fulfils the required design elements and shows creativity. This is an excellent design that looks and feels professional. Engaging and insightful original content, fully relevant to the theme of your site."
  ];

## Responsive web design implementation

Marked by viewing site on mobile devices and inspecting source code.

* **0-19** - Little or no attempt to implement a responsive design.
* **20–34** - Limited or flawed attempt to implement a responsive design.
* **35–39** - Partial attempt to fulfil the required responsive design process. Did you work mobile first?
* **40–49** - Satisfactory attempt to fulfil the required responsive design process. There are likely to be multiple errors. Did you work mobile first? Check your work in a mobile device.
* **50–59** - Coherent and careful delivery of a responsive design. There may be some errors. Your site is mostly responsive but there may be CSS missing in some areas.
* **60–69** - Thorough and precise delivery of a responsive design. There may be minor errors. Your site is completely responsive.
* **70–85** - Meticulous work that creates a responsive design and shows sophistication. Your site is responsive and works well at all screen sizes.
* **86–100** - Professional standard work that creates a responsive design and shows creativity. Your site is responsive and has added thought to create an industry-standard site.

## Accessibility and usability of site

Marked by reading alt text, checking colour contrast and legibility. Usability is marked by viewing the page and interacting with it on a variety of devices.

* **0-19** - Little or no attempt to create a usable and accessible website, or errors that make the site almost totally inaccessible.
* **20–34** - Limited or flawed attempt to create an accessible and usable website with unacceptable errors: you may for example have very poor colour contrast, poor or missing alt text.
* **35–39** - Partial attempt to create a usable and accessible website with unacceptable accessibility or usability issues: you may have very poor colour contrast, poor or missing alt text.
* **40–49** - Satisfactory attempt to create a usable and accessible website: you may still have poor colour contrast, poor or missing alt text.
* **50–59** - The usability and accessibility of your site overall is of a good standard: you may have some poor colour contrast, poor or missing alt text.
* **60–69** - You have created a website that works well at desktop and mobile screen sizes with good accessibility and usability: you have good colour contrast and your alt text is in place.
* **70–85** - Your site has an excellent level of usability and accessibility, and works well for touchscreen or standard computer displays: you have good colour contrast and your alt text is in place.
* **86–100** - Meticulous work that fulfils the accessibility and usability requirements of this project. Your site works well for touchscreen or standard computer displays: you have excellent colour contrast, your alt text is fit for purpose. You have gone beyond what is required and added useful extra code or design elements to create a professional website.

## Quality of site preparation

This includes file/folder naming and folder structure. Marked by viewing submission files.

* **0-19** - There is no structure to your site and it would be very difficult to work on in this state.
* **20–34** - Files and folders are totally disorganised and some may be missing.
* **35–39** - Files and folders are very disorganised and file names may be confusing.
* **40–49** - Files and folders are disorganised and file names are confusing.
* **50–59** - Files and folders are mostly organised. File names are sometimes confusing.
* **60–69** - Files and folders are mostly organised. File names are mostly named systematically.
* **70–85** - Files and folders are organised and file names are systematic.
* **86–100** - Files and folders are organised and named to a professional standard."

## Your overall mark

Your overall mark is worked out on the basis of the average of the individual marks for your site: so it’s better to spend time on each aspect of your site rather than concentrating on just one.
